[Stream] Various Updates (#19980)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/stream/stream-live/dvr-for-live.mdx

## Video ID or Input ID

Stream Live allows loading the Player or HLS manifest by Video ID or Live Input
ID. Refer to [Watch a live stream](/stream/stream-live/watch-live-stream/) for how to
retrieve these URLs and compare these options. There are additional
considerations when using DVR mode:

**Recommended:** Use DVR Mode on a Video ID URL:

- When the player loads, it will start playing the active broadcast if it is
  still live or play the recording if the broadcast has concluded.

DVR Mode on a Live Input ID URL:

- When the player loads, it will start playing the currently live broadcast if
  there is one (refer to [Live Input Status](/stream/stream-live/watch-live-stream/#live-input-status)).
- If the viewer is still watching _after the broadcast ends,_ they can continue
  to watch. However, if the player or manifest is then reloaded, it will show the
  latest broadcast or "Stream has not yet started" (`HTTP 204`). Past broadcasts
  are not available by Live Input ID.

## Known Limitations

- When using DVR Mode and a player/manifest created using a Live Input ID, the
  player may stall when trying to switch quality levels if a viewer is still

>   watching after a broadcast has concluded.

Reviewer: Isn't this temporary? Is the solution also going to go live w/ the feature? (I may be remembering incorrectly!)

Author: This would depend on if the player had pre-fetched a rendition manifest that it wasn't playing. Because the Live Input ID does not refer to a _past_ broadcast, fetching an updated manifest after the broadcast concludes will result in an HTTP 204. We will go forward with this limitation accepted, and see if folks run into it. This is why we recommend using DVR with a Video ID when possible.

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: DVR for Live
sidebar:
  badge:
    text: Beta
---

Stream Live supports "DVR mode" on an opt-in basis to allow viewers to rewind,

> resume, and fast-forward a live broadcast. To enable DVR mode, simply add the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
resume, and fast-forward a live broadcast. To enable DVR mode, add the
```

`dvrEnabled=true` query parameter to the Stream Player embed source or the HLS
manifest URL.

> **Stream Player Embed Format**

Reviewer 2: Let's swap this for a heading instead of just bold text. Will be easier to directly link to also. So ## Stream Player embed format

> ``` html title="Stream Player Embed Code"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``` html title="Stream Player embed code"
```

<div style="position: relative; padding-top: 56.25%;">
  <iframe
    src="https://customer-<CODE>.cloudflarestream.com/<INPUT_ID|VIDEO_ID>/iframe?dvrEnabled=true"
    style="border: none; position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; height: 100%; width: 100%;"
    allow="accelerometer; gyroscope; autoplay; encrypted-media; picture-in-picture;"
    allowfullscreen="true"
  ></iframe>
</div>
```

When DVR mode is enabled the Stream Player will:

> - Show a timeline the viwer can scrub/seek, like when watching an on-demand video

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Show a timeline the viewer can scrub/seek. For example, when watching an on-demand video,
```

  the timeline will automatically scale to show the growing duration of the broadcast.
- The "LIVE" indicator will show grey if the viewer is behind the live edge or
  red if they are watching the latest content. Clicking that indicator will jump
  forward to the live edge.
- If the viewer pauses the player, it will resume playback from that time instead
  of jumping forward to the live edge.

> **HLS Manifest URL Format**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**HLS Manifest URL format**
```

Reviewer 2: Also, what do you think of making this a header as well?

Author: Will do, yes

``` text title="HLS Manifest"
https://customer-<CODE>.cloudflarestream.com/<INPUT_ID|VIDEO_ID>/manifest/video.m3u8?dvrEnabled=true
```

> Custom players using a DVR-capable HLS manifest may need additional

Reviewer 2: These two sentences seem well suited for a note but will let you make the call. Note example for reference https://developers.cloudflare.com/style-guide/components/asides/

Author: Hmm... possibly? There's no other text in that section before the next headline though

configuration to surface helpful controls or information. Refer to your player
library for additional information.

## Video ID or Input ID

Stream Live allows loading the Player or HLS manifest by Video ID or Live Input

> ID. See [Watch a live stream](/stream/stream-live/watch-live-stream/) for how to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ID. Refer to [Watch a live stream](/stream/stream-live/watch-live-stream/) for how to
```

retrieve these URLs and compare these options. There are additional
considerations when using DVR mode:

> **Recommended:** When using DVR Mode on a Video ID URL:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Recommended:** Use DVR Mode on a Video ID URL:
```

- When the player loads, it will start playing the active broadcast if it is

>   still live, or its recording if the broadcast has concluded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  still live or play the recording if the broadcast has concluded.
```

> When using DVR Mode on a Live Input ID URL:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DVR Mode on a Live Input ID URL:
```

- When the player loads, it will start playing the currently live broadcast if

>   there is one (see [Live Input Status](/stream/stream-live/watch-live-stream/#live-input-status)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  there is one (refer to [Live Input Status](/stream/stream-live/watch-live-stream/#live-input-status)).
```

- If the viewer is still watching _after the broadcast ends,_ they can continue
  to watch. However, if the player or manifest is then reloaded, it will show the
  latest broadcast or "Stream has not yet started" (`HTTP 204`). Past broadcasts
  are not available by Live Input ID.

## Known Limitations

> - When using DVR Mode and a player/manifest created using a Live Input ID, if a

Reviewer 2: Recommending sentence structure below for better readability/comprehension:

When using DVR Mode and a player/manifest created using a Live Input ID, the player may stall when trying to switch quality levels if a viewer is still watching after a broadcast has concluded.

Author: Oh yeah that makes a lot more sense

  viewer is still watching after a broadcast has concluded, the player may stall
  when trying to switch quality levels.

> - There is no enforced limit to the maximum duration of a DVR manifest, however

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- There is no enforced limit to the maximum duration of a DVR manifest; however,
```

Author: A semi-colon, my heart ;)

>   performance may be degraded for DVR manifests longer than 3 hours.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  performance may be degraded for DVR manifests longer than three hours.
```

- DVR Mode relies on Version 8 of the HLS manifest specification, which is newer

>   than Version 6, which Stream Live and On-Demand currently use. HLS v8 offers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  than Version 6 and used by Stream Live and On-Demand. HLS v8 offers
```

Author: Ah yes, my wording here wasn't super clear, but I think the suggestion says something different than what I meant. I'll try again
